---
title: "An Introduction to Big Data and Automated Text Analysis for Social Scientists"
collection: talks
type: "Workshop"
permalink: /talks/2019-07-07-talk-1
venue: "The University of British Columbia, Department of Sociology"
date: 2019-07-07
location: "Vancouver, British Columbia,Canada"
---

I served as the lab assistant for the workshop with the instructor [Dr. John McLevey](http://www.johnmclevey.com/) and gave a hands-on tutorial on introduction to Python, materials can be found [here](https://github.com/EvanZhuang/intro_python_workshop/blob/master/python_tutorial.ipynb). More details about the workshop can be found below.

An Introduction to Big Data and Automated Text Analysis for Social Scientists

Date: June 7th & 8th
Location: ANSO 2107

This two-day workshop offers a practical introduction to fundamentals and recent developments in the collection and analysis of big data with an emphasis on automated text analysis. The workshop is designed with social scientists in mind, but participants from other fields are also welcome. I assume that participants have little to no prior experience with methods of automated text analysis. 

This workshop makes extensive use of the programming language python. Although having some knowledge of Python is an asset, it is not necessary. I will provide all participants with fully executable code for all topics covered in the workshop. Participants will be encouraged to modify the code to suit their specific interests, but this requires minimal programming knowledge and is not required.

Day 1. Big Data: An Introduction to Automated Text Analysis

The first day will begin with a general introduction to the promises and pitfalls of big data and automated text analysis in the social sciences, followed by an overview of the applications of supervised and unsupervised machine learning. It will conclude with a comparison of two approaches to collecting text data from the web: Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and web scraping. 

The second part of the first day will focus on the essential first steps of an automated text analysis. Topics covered will include (1) natural language processing tasks such as tokenizing text, normalizing text, part-of-speech tagging, and named entity recognition; and (2) methods for constructing document-term matrices, which are required for the use of machine learning methods. 

Day 2. Big Data: Analyzing Unstructured Text Data

The second day picks up where the first day left off. We will begin with applications of unsupervised learning to discover latent themes and topics in text. We will focus on three different approaches: (1) the vector space model, text similarity, and cluster analysis; (2) topics modelling; and (3) semantic network analysis. In the afternoon, we will focus on the use of supervised learning to scale up traditional content analysis. 

Time permitting, we may also cover (1) methods for sentiment analysis and classifying text by political ideology, and (2) approaches to integrating unsupervised and supervised machine learning. 